So we learn a lot about built-in validators,
let's now work on the array here where we validate hobbies.
Let's learn how we can validate erase,
it's actually straightforward,
first of all in this validations property, I'll add a new key
and as always, I'll pick the key name
I also bind to with v-model I'd say but we don't actually do that here, we manage this array in this key
here however,
so I'll use hobby inputs as a key here in validations too
so that vuelidate can match the two
and then I will set hobby inputs here equal to a javascript object and now, I can define some validators
which are applied to the whole array,
this mostly makes sense for a minimum length or maximum length to define how many elements this array must
have or should have at a maximum. I'll add a minLen validator, use the minLength function we already
import and say I want to have at least one element.
Now more interesting is a special property we can now add, $each,
as you've probably already noticed, dollar sign properties are always properties provided by vue
or some package.
$each is kind of a placeholder for all these dynamic elements we can add to the array because when we
create this validation logic, we of course don't know for sure how many elements the user is going
to have,
so $each then also holds a javascript object and in there, we can now reference the data
in all our inputs,
so in hobby input here I'm actually storing new elements in onAddHobby, in this method and it's this
value property which will be bound via v-model in my array up here,
you see I'm binding with v-model to the value on the hobby input which I get out of this v-for loop.
So it's this value property I
then also want to bind to value
and this again holds a javascript object which now just defines validation rules as we did it on any
other value,
so as we did it on email or age and so on.
And now here we can say this should be required and maybe we also want to have a minimum length here,
now here we are referring to the minimum amount of characters, let's say hobby should have at least
have 5 characters,
that's the set up in the javascript code,
now we need to connect it.
So in the array in the template, I have first of all want to hook up my input with @blur and there, I'll
reach out to $v,
then to hobby inputs,
that's the identifier we created,
there to $each
and now on each, I'll pass the index of the element we're currently at and I get the index from v-for,
I'm extracting it here as a second argument.
So this is the element I now want to touch, so there to be precise I want to touch the value element
because theoretically in this array, we could of course have multiple inputs,
that is why we still inside each have the option to add multiple keys like we did with value.
So value is the well value or a validator
I now want to touch with $touch so that this gets validated. To see whether we have an error
or not,
I'll add something to the div which wraps my label and input,
I'll add this good old class binding where I set the invalid class if $v.hobbyInputs,
$each then the index, if that has an error
and there, I could of course also reach out to value or I check if any element in this array element
has an error,
here we only have one input
but again we could have many or multiple such inputs.
Now we also added validation for the array as a whole, the array as a whole of course is not synchronized
with v-model
but what I can do is I can of course output some helper text below my list of hobbies maybe. I could
output
you have to specify at least and now a dynamic amount hobbies.
This should only be shown with v-if if $v.hobbyInputs referring to our hobby inputs key
here under validations, if that's has an invalid
so a false minLen property.
So we check for whether this is not true, then we want to show the error message
and of course we want to output the amount of hobbies,
so here I'll
access $v.hobbyInputs, then $params and there minLen and there, the min
property.
Let's see this in action,
let's save this and go back to our application and here, we don't see this error message
so we'll have to check what's wrong there.
If I add a hobby though, validation for that is working,
it only becomes valid if I have at least five characters
but what's wrong with the overall validation where we want to output the minimum amount of characters
on hobby inputs,
why is this not working?
Now the reason why we don't see this error message actually is that minLength one is never invalid,
if we add a hobby, we fulfill the criteria,
if we remove it, we're back to the untouched state.
So instead I'll set this to 2
and now if we go back and I add a hobby, you see that we also get this message that we need two hobbies
and only if I add a second one, this disappears, if I remove it,
we're back to the message
and of course validation on the individual hobby also still works.
So this is all working
and of course I can also go down and add required here on hobby inputs,
so on the overall array to make sure we also are not allowed to have zero hobbies, in this case we would
not see the error message but still have this overall element or this overall control
treated as invalid
as long as no value was entered.
So now with that, we got a great array under control of vuelidate which we can always validate to
see whether we entered something good.
Now let's complete it by adding another error message where we say please add hobbies and there, I want
to output this if we have entered none hobby at all, so enter or access $v.hobbyInputs required.
If this is not true,
then I want to see this message, if I add one this disappears
but we need two, if I click
again, this is now also gone.
So now we got a great array validation in place here,
let's move on.